Every architecture decision I have seen
plays out the same way. Someone proposes
microservices, someone else defends the
monolith, 3 hours of whiteboarding
letter. The most senior person in the
room wins and nobody documents why.
I built a cloud skill that replaces the
entire process. And let me show you what
it does.
Here's I'm going to give you one
paragraph a real scenario.
We are a fintech startup with 12
engineers. We currently have Django
monolith handling payments, user
accounts and lend a lending product. We
are growing fast and need to decide
should we extract the payment service
into a micros service, refactor into a
modular monolith or keep the monolith
and optimize.
We process about 50k transactions per
day and expect 10x growth in the next 18
month.
Now let me go and
start analyzing this. As you can see
I've already loaded the skill and that's
why it picked up I'm using part. It's
going through the various u steps it has
given.
It's going to create the artifact it is
looking for.
Right now I'm using Opus 4.6. You can
use the scale on whatever model that you
prefer to go.
You can see all the details that it has
been currently writing.
There you go. uh report is ready. Now
let me go to show you guys what all
things it has.
It has the decision. It is giving a full
context what you already provided.
Uh it is going to talk about the various
options. Um payment microser extraction
uh move that to a modular monolith or
optimize the existing monolith
altogether itself.
It did the trade-off analysis as you can
see. Um all the architecture
characteristics it used. Uh it's going
to rank all the options based on uh the
weighted scales.
You can see the how the calculations was
made.
Uh it's going to give you the whole
scoring rational so that there's no
guesswork in that sense. Now it's going
to talk about the key tensions of
scalability versus data integrity
resolution tension. What are the various
different tensions it's talking about?
It's going to talk about what would have
to be true. So if you're familiar with
Roger Martin strategy framework, it's
going to do that part two. You can see
the details about the various options.
Then it's going to talk about the hidden
cost and second order effects. Um it's
very important to think about those
second order effects. We have to
understand the Conway's laws. You know
what would that mean?
What's the discipline tax? What are the
technical dep uh accumulation it's going
to have? The risk profile associated
with that?
How reversible are the decisions? And as
you can see at the end, it's going to
give you a recommendation.
For this particular case, it's
suggesting that you should go with
option two, which is modular monolith.
It's a medium to high confidence. It's
going to show you exactly why is the
case. Uh it's it's giving you the
sequence. Uh what should you do in the
first one to two months, what should you
do in the next 2 to four months, 4 to 6
months, and 12 plus months is also
giving you some caveats to the
confidence.
uh it's talking about the monitoring
strategy I mean once you put the
strategy it's important to understand
what kind of fitness functions you can
use to continue to monitor that part as
well right so you can see uh it's going
to give you about how do I build fitness
functions to understand what I decided
is correct or no and then you have an
architecture decision ready summary that
you can use to make the decisions all
together pretty simple neat and clean
you provide added context and you're
what you're giving is is the a 250
words long way detailed architecture
trade-off analysis